[theme song playing]
I thought you said
we were going to the fair.
We have business first.
Come on. Bring your wits.
- What business?
- That's the Lee family.
- Tommy!
- Johnny Dogs.
Tommy, how the hell are you?
All the better for getting the city smoke
out of my lungs.
I thought you became
a bit too grand for us.
I've been busy.
- I'm riding with the Lee family now.
- I heard.
Myself, I'd rather live among pigs.
Come on, Tommy. No disputing.
So, your first fair since France?
What do you know about France,
you war-shy Gypsy bastard?
- So this is the horse?
- And that's the car.
[Arthur] Hang on a minute.
You're not swapping the family car
for a bloody horse.
Of course we're not swapping it.
- That would be mad.
- We're going to play two-up.
- Here you are.
- I knew it.
I knew it.
Tommy, you bloody idiot.
Shut up, Arthur, I won.
- Good.
- I promised Johnny,
I'd let him have a spin
in the car if he lost.
All right.
[laughing]
Are you Lee boys
laughing at my brother?
Are you?
- Eh? I asked you a question.
- Tommy, come on!
Come on, it's just a crack.
Get your family out of here
and go and enjoy yourselves
at the fair
before they start a war.
Go on. Go. They're from good people.
Their granddad was a King.
Yeah, but his mother
was a Diddicoy whore.
We will take them
before last night's beer,
turns to piss and wakes the devils up.
We will leave no stone unturned.
Every gun, every bullet
will be brought to me for inspection.
Now, take your positions.
[whistle blowing]
[people screaming]
[breathing heavily]
Freddie.
[knock at door]
[panting]
You're sure your brothers are at the fair?
If it was them, they wouldn't knock.
[man] Mr. Thorne!
What is it?
The police are rounding up the communists.
Come on, Ada, if the cops
find me we are screwed. Fuck!
- [policeman] Freddie Thorne, open up!
- Ada!
[screaming]
You have to jump, Ada.
I'll catch you. Come on.
Look at this.
A prescription for iron tablets
for Ada fucking Shelby.
[knocking on door]
Mrs. Donovan, I need that favor.
- Come in and be quick.
- I'm not coming in. She is.
Holy Jesus, it's the Shelby girl.
You've not seen her with me, okay?
Just give her a cup of tea and let her
stay until the police have gone.
She's the sister of those
Peaky Blinder devils.
And yet, she is an angel.
Come on, Ada.
What are you going to do, Freddie?
Me? I'm gonna have to
leave town for a bit.
[women shouting]
[door opens]
A gentleman would take off his hat,
and put out his pipe.
I see you Specials
only dare come here,
when you know the boys
are away at the fair.
You mean your nephews?
With their guns and their razors?
Is it them you're lighting candles for?
No.
I am lighting candles
for the boys from the Garrison
who lost their lives in France.
There's a list there.
Look.
I hear you didn't make it to France,
Inspector Campbell.
You've heard of me.
I've heard of you.
Is it the Holy Grail you're looking for?
As a matter of fact,
it is the Holy Grail I'm looking for.
Something precious.
Something stolen.
Perhaps you know
what I'm talking about.
Sorry, I misunderstood your intention
when you pushed me against the wall.
Turn the place upside down.
Arthur Shelby said you people
would help us.
If we don't know what you've lost,
how can we help you find it?
But I have found out subsequently that
I was speaking to the wrong man.
Next time I want to talk to the boss.
Lickey Tea Rooms. Friday, ten o'clock
And when I say, "The boss,"
I mean Thomas.
Come on.
Now, what the bloody hell's
been going on here?
Jesus Christ.
[Polly] The coppers told everyone
Arthur'd agreed to it
when he was arrested.
They said the Peaky Blinders had cleared
out to the fair to let them do it.
I never said nothing to that copper about
smashing up bloody houses.
- All right. Which pubs did they do?
- The Guns, the Chain, the Marquis.
All the ones that pay you
to protect them.
Only one they didn't touch
was the Garrison.
Make sure people think
we were in on it.
He's smart, this copper.
So, go on.
Drink your beers, get out.
You'd better show people you are still
the cocks of the walk.
Hand out some cash
to the landlords of the pubs.
Pay some veterans
to fix the places up.
- [John] Nipper, give us the bag.
- So, what about you, Tommy?
I have to go to Charlie's
to stable the horse.
She looked footsore in the box.
Let them see your faces.
So we both know
what they were looking for.
- You don't read the papers.
- Racing papers.
So let me tell you the odds.
I reckon it's three to one,
there'll be a revolution.
- I wouldn't bet on that.
- That copper's betting on it.
He's not going to let it rest
till he gets those guns back.
[sighing]
Did he talk to you, Pol?
In the church.
Did he try to find our Ada?
She was sleeping.
[scoffing]
Where was she sleeping, Pol?
I thought you didn't care
for women's business.
He knows you're the boss.
He wants to meet you.
- Will you talk to him?
- No.
You don't parley
when you're on the back foot.
We'll strike a blow back first.
Finn, lad?
What are you doing?
We're having a fire.
[knock on door]
- Two bob for your picture of the King.
- What?
Bring it to Watery Lane.
- Hello, Finn lad.
- Hello, Scud.
[Scudboat] We are blocking
the entrance, mate.
Come on.
[people cheering]
Chuck them on, boys.
[all cheering]
I hope to God you know
what you're doing.
I'm a reporter
with the Birmingham Evening Despatch.
I had a phone call.
Someone called Thomas Shelby?
Come with me.
[Fred] Come on, folks,
give us a bit of room.
Tommy.
Move back for us, please, folks.
- You're Mr. Shelby?
- I am.
All the way back, please.
- You said, I would be protected.
- You're protected.
What's going on?
There are some things
I want you to write down.
Now, first of all,
it's not that people around here
are disloyal to the King.
It's the opposite.
You see, we don't want
our beloved King looking down
and seeing the things
that are being done to us.
So we are taking down
his pictures.
But why are you burning them?
We went through hell for our King.
Walked through the flames of war.
Write all this down.
And now we're being attacked
in our own homes.
These new coppers over from Belfast,
breaking into our homes and interfering
with our women.
We don't think our King would
want to see that happening.
So we're lighting fires
to raise the alarm.
May I ask you, in what capacity
do you speak?
No capacity.
I am an ordinary man.
I won gallantry medals at the Somme.
I want you to write in your paper
what's going on here.
Go on, go.
muttering
[knock on door]
Come in.
[door opens]
There, there. There's a telephone call
for you, sir, on the London line.
There is?
It's almost midnight.
It's Mr. Winston Churchill, sir.
[door closes]
- Yes, sir?
- Inspector Campbell.
I hear there has been
a bonfire in your city.
There was a small fire reported
at around nine o' clock on Watery Lane.
Certainly nothing to
trouble you about, sir.
But I'm afraid it has troubled me.
Half an hour ago,
I received a wire communication
from the editor
of the Birmingham Evening Despatch.
It seems one of his reporters
was invited to the fire,
and discovered that they were burning
pictures of the King.
Of the King?
Any newspaper report which may cause
embarrassment to His Majesty,
is always referred first and as a matter
of routine to the Home Office.
I will go down there immediately
and arrest those involved.
No, you most certainly
will not make arrests.
If there are arrests
there will be trials,
if there are trials there will be more
newspaper reports,
which will necessarily mention the burning
of the King's likeness.
I put you in Birmingham
for one very specific reason.
Are you any nearer to finding
those stolen guns?
- We are making steady progress.
- We need results.
- Good night, Mr. Campbell.
- Sir. Could I at least ask,
does this report name
any of those involved?
It names a Mr. Thomas Shelby.
The report mentions he is a war hero.
Good of you to join us.
- Where have you been all day?
- [Ada] In bed.
Couldn't sleep.
Then I couldn't wake up.
Then I was cold and then I had
to go for a wee.
Then I was with this bear on a boat,
but that was just a dream.
Then I was hungry.
Why are you reading the paper?
Why wouldn't I be?
I've never seen you
read the paper.
I've only ever seen you
light fires with them.
BSA are on strike.
The miners are on strike.
IRA are killing our boys,
ten a day.
What?
Stand up.
- Why?
- Just stand up.
Side on.
What are you doing?
Ada,
how late are you?
One week.
Five weeks.
Seven if you count weekends.
I think it's a lack of iron.
I got some tablets.
But they didn't work.
No.
[Mrs. Simeon] You can
get dressed now, love.
So, am I or not?
Keep bloody walking, Ada.
If anybody sees us here they'll know.
I'm not getting rid of it, Aunt Pol.
Just come home
and we'll talk about it.
You get off me or I'll scream it.
I swear.
All right, you want to do this
on the street, let's do it.
Whose is it?
If I tell you, you'll tell them
and they'll cut him to pieces.
Not if he marries you, they won't.
Will he marry you?
- I don't know where he is.
- Jesus Christ, Ada!
He's gone away but he said
he'll come back.
- But they all say they'll come back.
- He's not like that.
He's a good man. He promised.
[crying] He will come back, Aunt Pol,
I know he will!
Get me down a Spanish saddle, Curly.
Yes, Tommy, a Spanish saddle.
He's a beauty.
Yeah, yeah, beautiful. Yeah.
[Charlie] A fine beast
you got there, Thomas.
But is he worth falling out
with the Lee family over?
I'm just passing it on.
A declaration of war.
The whole Lee clan.
The guns and now this?
The guns are not spoken of.
Right?
Tommy...
Tommy!
- You mind how you speak to me.
- Forgive me, Uncle.
It's Thomas Shelby against
the whole bloody world, right?
[loud bang]
Easy...
Easy, easy...
Easy, boy.
[shushing]
In France we used to say...
In France we used to say,
it's just the music hall band turning up.
It's just trombones
and tubas, that's all.
It's just noise.
Hey? It's just noise.
You get used to it.
It's just noise.
Good boy. Good boy. Good boy.
Some pain there, boy?
I'm so sorry, Mr. Shelby.
- I'm Grace, by the way.
- I know who you are.
- What's his name?
- He doesn't have a name.
Poor boy deserves a name.
You have something
to say to me?
The other night you came into the pub
when I was singing.
You said singing wasn't allowed.
I'd like there to be one night a week
when there is singing.
I think it would be good
for everyone.
Saturday nights.
Harry was too afraid
to ask you, so...
But you're not.
I am.
But I love to sing.
You sound like one of those
rich girls who come over from Dublin,
for the races.
Do you like horses?
How do you fancy
earning some extra money?
Doing what?
Dig out a nice dress.
I want to take you to the races.
[man talking indistinctly]
Sorry, Mr. Shelby.
[people chattering]
Hello, Mr. Shelby,
how's it going?
- Hello, Frank, how's the leg?
- Not bad.
Good. Nice to see you, son.
Morning, Charlie.
- All right, Scudboat, how are we looking?
- Looking good, Tommy.
- Grand stuff.
- Tommy,
they are all here
for Monaghan Boy.
That's what I like
to hear, Johnny boy.
And Aunt Pol wants to see you.
[inaudible]
[sighs]
Tell me the man's name, Ada.
Rudolf Valentino.
Get out!
All of you! Go on! Now!
I said, tell me his fucking name.
Freddie fucking Thorne!
Yeah. Your best mate since school.
The man who saved your life in France!
So go on! Go on, cut him!
Cut him up and chuck him in the Cut!
Oye, I'm a Shelby, too, you know.
Put my fucking film back on!
So Monaghan Boy finally lost.
Third time unlucky.
We took money
from all over the city.
Yeah, but you'll pay it back
to people around here.
Buy your popularity back.
Already done.
Taught you well.
And you fixed this race without
the permission of Billy Kimber?
Obviously, didn't teach you
well enough.
Rule one. You don't punch
above your weight.
- Billy Kimber is there for the taking.
- Says who?
Says Tommy
and his parliament of one?
I ran this business
for five years...
Yeah, while I was
away fighting, remember?
I learnt some things, such as, you strike
when your enemy is weak.
I thought you came here
to talk family business.
I'll deal with it.
- You're too busy taking over the world.
- Polly.
If it's about Ada,
I need to know.
Ada wants you to give Freddie this letter.
She wants Freddie to know
she's having his baby.
He deserves an opportunity
to do the right thing.
I say we give them a chance.
For a woman who's had
a hard life with men,
you're still full of romance, eh?
What do you think
Freddie sees in our Ada?
- That's Freddie's business.
- No.
No. I'll tell you what he sees.
He sees machine guns and rifles,
and ammunition
and some glorious revolution.
What is it you really
don't like about Freddie?
She'll have no life
with a man on the run.
If you can't see that,
you can't see much.
Damn them for what they
did to you in France!
Tell Ada, Freddie went to America.
Or Russia.
Polly, it would do no good for Ada
to bring a baby into the world alone.
Pol, listen.
The truth is you would have
hit me with that thing,
if it weren't for the fact
that you know I'm right!
I thought I heard
someone knocking.
Couldn't get back to sleep.
[Polly] The longer you leave it,
the worse it gets.
Believe me, I know.
I was 16.
And I didn't dare tell anyone.
Polly, Freddie will come back.
In the end I did it myself.
I did it to myself.
And I almost died.
And he didn't come back.
They don't.
Why should they?
You know the words.
"You're a whore,
the baby's a bastard."
But there's no word for the man
who doesn't come back.
One day, on your wedding day,
you'll have a good man on your arm,
and you will say,
"Polly, thank you for common sense."
This woman is in Cardiff.
We'll take the train tomorrow.
Go to the castle
afterwards for a treat.
I chose this place because it is outside
both of our jurisdictions.
Do you want tea?
Inspector, I responded
to your invitation,
because I want us to
understand each other.
I am a businessman.
I want to make
my business successful.
And I want my city run peacefully.
If the city is peaceful,
business can thrive.
So we are on the same side?
I think perhaps we could be.
Now...
How can we be on the same side
when I see things like this?
My men found this
in the bedroom of a known communist.
It has your sister's name on it.
It was obvious she had been
sleeping in his bed.
Are you also in bed
with the communists, Mr. Shelby?
I do not share their fantasy.
And as for my sister,
I have already dealt
with the situation.
Freddie Thorne is
at the very top of my list.
Cross him off.
He won't be returning to the city.
I will make him part of our deal.
What deal?
You and your Specials will leave
my businesses alone from now on.
No more raids into our territory,
no more smashing up pubs,
no more lifting my runners.
You turn a blind eye to
all of my gambling operations.
Also...
I am planning an expansion
onto the race tracks.
I intend to do business
with Billy Kimber.
He runs most of the legal
track side betting outside of London.
He has policemen on his payroll.
I want you to put in a word with
the Chief Inspector at Gloucestershire,
that his men should leave me alone
when I make my move.
Forgive me.
I don't seem to have a pen
to write down this rather
long list of demands.
And what do I get in return?
I have what you're looking for.
I have the guns.
What guns?
- I'm not here to play games--
- Wait, wait.
Twenty-five Lewis machine guns.
50 carbines, 10,000 rounds of ammunition.
All in a crate bound for Libya,
stolen from the BSA factory proofing bay.
I'm guessing they sent you to Birmingham
to get those guns back.
Well, it's me that has them.
I have left word with men I trust that
if I am taken into police custody
for whatever reason,
those guns will be shipped to Liverpool.
From there they will be sent directly
to Belfast,
and sold to the Irish Republican Army.
All your good work in Ireland
would be undone.
Each stolen weapon
is numbered and marked.
If I sell them to the IRA, it won't
be long before Mr. Churchill finds out.
I imagine you got into enough trouble over
the burning of the King's photographs.
That was just a taster.
If those guns reach Belfast,
your life in the force is over.
When I have achieved
what I have set out to achieve,
I will let you know
where to find the guns.
You'll be a hero,
you will probably get a medal.
I'm a fair man.
It's a fair offer.
Do we have a deal?
I need an answer.
Right now.
Very well.
But I would prefer
if we don't shake hands on it.
Now why would I
shake the hand of a man,
who didn't even fight
for his country?
[opera music playing]
[singing in foreign language]
[knock at door]
Grace.
I have new information.
Thomas Shelby
is now the beginning,
the middle and end of your mission.
So what shall I do?
It hurts me as much as it,
as it would a father sending his
own daughter into a whore house,
but no matter how repugnant it may be,
you must do everything you can
to get close to him,
and find out where those guns are hidden.
Of course, when I say,
"Everything," I don't mean...
You underestimate me in every way.
Here...
You are now active in a military operation
on behalf of the Crown.
And I wish to God,
circumstance hadn't chosen you.
It's what I am trained for.
I'm late for my shift.
Grace...
My heart is with you.
[dramatic opera music playing]
[singing in foreign language]
[screaming]
[gunshot]
[panting]
Tom! Tom!
Tom, you better come quick, Tom!
Come! Come!
- Curly, tell me.
- It's a curse, Tom.
Curly. Curly. Curly. Shh. Curly. Curly.
Tell me. Tell me, Curly,
what's wrong with the horse?
You bought it at the fair in bad feeling.
The Lees put a bad seed in the hoof.
Got an old woman to put a spell!
[mumbling]
So those Lee bastards cursed her.
Whatever it is, he says
it spread to the other foot.
It's going to his heart
by tomorrow, I'd say.
Seen curses like this twice.
Can't take them back, Tom!
No! No!
I told you, Tommy.
Better enemies to have
than black blood Gypsies.
Get out.
Get out, Curly.
I'm sorry.
[gunshot]
[banging on door]
- We're closed, Mr. Shelby.
- Just get me a drink.
[coughs]
Shall I leave you alone?
I came here for company.
- Where's Harry?
- He took the night off.
And went to the pictures.
How's your beautiful horse?
I just put a bullet in his head.
Was he lame?
He looked at me the wrong way.
It's not a good idea to look
at Tommy Shelby the wrong way.
- What a waste.
- Yeah. A waste is what it is.
You know, in France...
In France, I got used to seeing men die.
Never got used to seeing horses die.
They die badly.
I dug out a dress like you asked.
Thanks.
Is it Cheltenham
you're talking about?
Cheltenham's a grand affair, is it not?
The King will be there.
- King George?
- No.
King Billy Kimber and all his men.
And what must I do?
For two pounds you will do
what I ask you to do.
I want three.
If I'm meeting a king,
I won't be wearing a cheap dress.
And I asked you to let me sing.
That's part of the deal now too.
Since when?
Since you nearly smiled.
Saturday nights.
Open and easy.
Everyone gets to sing their song,
just like we did in Dublin.
You never worked in Dublin,
so don't lie to me.
I asked around about that pub
you said you used to work in.
I have friends over there.
No one has heard of you.
My guess is,
you are a girl from a good family,
who got herself pregnant.
It's not something I want known.
And bringing a child into the world alone
ruined your life.
Right?
So I'm right and Polly is wrong.
Right about what?
It doesn't matter.
It looks like it matters to you.
Family business.
You won't tell anyone my secret.
Do you think I tell people things?
So what do you sing?
- Anything you want.
- Right.
Get up on a chair.
Okay.
Happy or sad?
Sad.
Okay.
But I warn you,
it will break your heart.
Already broken.
In a neat little town
They call Belfast
Apprentice to trade
I was bound
Many an hour sweet happiness
Had I spent in that neat little town
A sad misfortune came over me
Which caused me to stray from the land
Far away from my friends and relations
Betrayed by the black velvet band
Her eyes, they shone like diamonds
I thought her the queen of the land
And her hair
It hung over her shoulder
Tied up
With a black velvet band
- You okay?
- Yeah, I'm fine.
I think there are some carriages
over there that are gonna be empty...
[Polly] Jesus.
Freddie.
You came back?
I got a tip-off.
Freddie, Tommy will kill you.
It was Tommy
who tipped me off.
Maybe he's got
half a heart after all.
Tommy got a message to me.
It said, "Get out of town,
take her with you."
So...
Ada Shelby...
Will you marry me?
Yes!
Yes.
Right, get on that bloody train
and get out of here.
- Come on, both of you.
- Freddie, come on.
Freddie, Cardiff's okay.
Anywhere but here's okay.
We're not going anywhere, Ada.
We are going to stay here,
we are going to marry here.
I'm not afraid of Tommy Shelby.
[all singing "The Sunshine of Your Smile"]
[Arthur] Shuffle these cards and...
Go and play snap with Finn.
- [Grace] Did you want whiskey as well?
- No. Just beer.
Why no whiskey, Tommy?
Are you expecting trouble?
Jesus Christ, Tommy, what the hell
made you let them sing?
It's like they're strangling
cats out there.
[Arthur] All right.
20 is the play. Come on.
And what did make you change your mind,
though, Tommy?
Yeah, it is.
- It's about time, Tommy.
- Time for what?
- Time you took yourself a woman.
- Just play the bloody hands.
You stay the way you are, Tommy.
Remember what Dad used to say.
Fast women and slow horses...
[both] Will ruin your life.
[car approaching]
- [John] Coppers.
- No.
[all singing]
Holy shit. It's Billy Kimber.
Is there any man here
named Shelby?
I said, is there any man here
Harry, get these men a drink.
Everyone else, go home!
You go home.
- But Mr. Fenton said--
- I said, go home.
I've never approved of women in pubs,
but when they look like that...
You said you wanted men
called Shelby.
You've got three of them.
I'd never heard of you.
Then I did hear of you.
Some little Diddicoy razor gang.
I thought to myself, "So, what?"
But then you fuck me over.
So now you have my undivided attention.
By the way, which one am I talking to?
Who's the boss?
Well, I'm the oldest.
[laughs] Clearly.
Are you laughing at my brother?
Right, he's the oldest,
you're the thickest.
I'm told the boss is called Tommy
and I'm guessing that's you,
'cause you're looking me up and down
like I'm a fucking tart.
I want to know what you want.
There were suspicious
betting patterns at Kempton Park.
A horse called Monaghan Boy.
He won by a length twice
and then finished last,
with 3,000 pounds bet on him.
Which one am I talking to?
Which one of you is the boss?
I am Mr. Kimber's adviser
and accountant.
And I'm the fucking boss.
Okay, right, end of parley.
You fixed a race
without my permission.
You fucking Gypsy scum.
What, live off the war pensions
of these poor Garrison Lane widows!
That's your level!
I am Billy Kimber,
I run the races!
You fixed one of them so I'm going
to have you shot against a post.
Mr. Kimber.
[Thomas] Look at it.
That is my name on it.
It's from the Lee family.
You are also at war with the Lees,
Mr. Kimber, am I right?
The Lees are attacking your bookies
and taking your money.
Your men can't control them.
You need help.
Perhaps we should listen
to what Mr. Shelby has to say.
Before we make our decisions.
Right. The Lees are doing
a lot of talking at the fairs.
They have a lot of kin.
They're saying
the race tracks are easy meat,
because the police
are busy with strikes.
Now, we have connections.
We know how they operate.
You have muscle.
Together, we can beat them.
Divided, maybe not.
Mr. Kimber, perhaps we should
take some time for reflection,
possibly make arrangements
for a second meeting.
I admire you, Mr. Kimber.
You started with nothing,
and built a legitimate business.
It would be an honor
to work with you, Mr. Kimber.
Nobody works with me.
People work for me.
Pick it up, pikey.
Sit, sit down.
- It's for your ceiling.
- Thank you, Mr. Kimber.
- We will be at Cheltenham.
- As will I.
So you picked a fight
with the Lees on purpose.
Tommy, we can't mess
with Billy fucking Kimber.
Get yourself a decent haircut, man.
We're going to the races.
[theme song playing]